---
img: "b2b-marketing-myths"
title: "B2B Marketing Myths: let’s shut down the rumour mill"
author: "Stone2stone"
date: "2023-02-20"
---

**Compared to B2C, B2B marketing is still relatively new. This means that there are still quite a few misconceptions about what exactly it means and the tactics used. Let’s take some time to dispel some B2B marketing myths, and focus on the truth of what it’s really all about.**

The first, and possibly most prevalent myth, is that B2C does not matter in B2B. Whilst they are very different branches of marketing, it can be a little naiive to believe they don’t cross over quite a lot. Traditionally we see B2C as emotionally led whilst B2B is rational led. B2C has a much shorter conversion cycle, and B2B focuses on building lasting relationships rather than short term ones. Whilst these facts remain true however, modern B2B marketing is evolving to realise that the human element of the process doesn’t solely belong in B2C. Creating a good customer experience is the difference between losing their interest or gaining valuable leads. You still need to align to your target audience’s needs and values otherwise they will not see you as the business for them. You can’t write mass clocks of toneless information and expect it to grab potential leads’ attention. Focus on the tone you want to convey, the people you want to become clients. Therefore personal engagement is important in both B2B and B2C.

The second of our B2B marketing myths I would like to counter (and one I am guilty of believing before joining Stone2Stone) is that B2B marketing is for the older generation. Now it’s easy to see where this thought process comes from. When you imagine business to business you envision a certain level of experience in the sector attached to said people. Not only that, but traditionally email marketing was one of the first medium with which B2B marketers could reach potential leads, and it remains one of the most reliable tactics even in 2021. However, as the internet expands and more and more people are adventuring onto it, the result is a social media marketing boom. This not only helps to expand B2B marketer’s reach, but also changes the view on the generations it reaches. Now, it is directed at all ages, controlled by all ages. Not only is the sector starting to look for fresh young leads for their business but also to work for their agency. Not to say that the older generation can’t be social media savvy, but it’s a lot easier to stay relevant utilising people who are constantly browsing current moods and trends.

Yet another myth I am guilty of believing until Stone2Stone completely changed my mind – B2B marketing is not creative. Now it’s true that B2C marketing is much more outwardly creative – it has to be bold and eye catching in order to get the consumer to quickly follow through on purchasing the product being marketed. However, if you look a little closer the level of creativity in B2B might surprise you. Just take a look at where you are now. Blogs are one of the most handy tools a B2B marketing agency can wield to increase your profile. Not only are you regularly engaging both new and established leads, but the variety that blog posts provide helps increase visibility through excellent SEO. Blogs also allow you to not only be creative but to talk to your leads in a more personal, conversational way.

Other ways creativity shines in B2B are on social media and content creation. It’s not all about text – nowadays audio podcasts, infographics, videos, animations and more are used in business to business marketing. However, when it comes to B2B creative content, make sure you have researched your target audience thoroughly beforehand.

Lastly, the B2B marketing myth that email marketing is dead. I get it, I just spoke about how social media is becoming the biggest marketing platform out there. In reality, email marketing isn’t going anywhere – it remains one of the most reliable way to market to new and established leads. It’s simply that it is no longer the only way to do it. To further complicate the issue, modern GDPR laws have made it increasingly difficult to make your marketing emails be seen instead sent straight into the spam folder. However, if they do go through, they can consistently generate quality leads that you might not get elsewhere.

So there you have it. I’ve only skimmed the surface of the B2B marketing myths pool but I hope I’ve helped dispel some harmful and restrictive generalisations about B2B marketing that might just help your own strategy improve a little.
